= Welcome to MConf-web

MConf-web is a web application that controls the access to the MConf webconferencing system.
It's developed in Ruby on Rails (based on VCC https://github.com/ging/vcc)

<b>For more details check our wiki at: http://code.google.com/p/mconf/wiki/MconfWeb</b>

== Setting up the development environment

MConf-web currently uses Rails 3.0.3.

At first, Install ruby. We recommend the use of rvm (http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/). See the quick steps below.

Clone Mconf-Web repository:

  git clone git://github.com/mconf/mconf-web.git

Run the script "<tt>setup</tt>". It will install some system packages that mconf-web uses (such as imagemagick, openssl, libxml2) and create configuration files. 
Note: This script is made for Ubuntu 10.10. If your use other system, check the libs your need to install (in the top of the script) and install the equivalents for your system.

  script/setup development

Configure the database and the mailer. The script "<tt>setup</tt>" created these files for you, but you need to open and configure them.

* Database: <tt>config/database.yml</tt>
  * You may need to insert a password if you're using mysql.
* Mailer: <tt>config/initializers/mail_conf.rb</tt>
  * It uses a gmail account. Uncomment everything and change your username/password.

Install bundler and all gems:

  gem install bundler
  bundle install

Now you need to create the development database.

  rake setup:development
  rake setup:test

The first command above will drop and recreate your development database, create the basic data needed to use the system and populate the db with test data. The second command will do the same but for the test environment.

Then you can:

Run the server and browse the website at <tt>localhost:3000</tt>:

  rails server

Run all tests:

  bundle exec rake spec

More details and troubleshoting at: http://code.google.com/p/mconf/w/edit/MconfWeb

=== Quick steps to install Ruby using rvm

We are currently using rvm 1.2.6.
First, run:

  bash < <( curl http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/releases/rvm-install-head )

Add the following line to your ~/.bashrc or ~/.bash_profile and start a new prompt:

  [[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && . "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" # This loads RVM into a shell session.

To check if it worked, run the command below and it should output "<tt>rvm is a function</tt>"

  type rvm | head -1

Install ruby 1.9.2 and set it as default:

  rvm instal 1.9.2
  rvm use --default 1.9.2

Run "<tt>rvm notes</tt>" and install the packages under "For Ruby (MRI & ree)"

Optional:

Mconf-Web uses rubygems 1.5.0. If needed, you can check your version and specify a new one with:

  gem -v
  rvm rubygems 1.5.0

We recommend that you create a gemset for Mconf and use it as default:
  rvm gemset create mconf
  rvm use --default 1.9.2@mconf

== About

MConf project: http://www.inf.ufrgs.br/prav/gtmconf

MConf-web is based on VCC (Virtual Conference Centre): https://github.com/ging/vcc

